My name is Ofek Nourian

Profile
Machine Learning Engineer with hands-on experience in designing, training, optimizing, and deploying AI systems. Proven ability to lead cross-functional teams and deliver complex, mission-critical solutions.
Education
M.Sc Electrical & Computer Engineering - Ben Gurion University (Oct 2022 - 2025)

Focus: Machine Learning (ML) | Research Grant | Advisor: Dr. Ofer Hadar
Research: Developing novel approaches for computer vision, deep learning and super resolution to improve agriculture. Published one paper in IEEE and currently working on two more.

B.Sc Electrical & Computer Engineering - Holon Institute of Technology (Oct 2015 - Oct 2019)

Focus: Signal Processing & Embedded systems
Project: Infant car abandonment prevention System, connecting to car OBD diagnostics using CAN bus and reading current car status, with embedded unit under the infant seat and a custom Android app

Work Experience
Machine Learning Team Leader - Israeli Air Force (Nov 2023 - Present)
Leading a team of nine engineers. Designing AI system architectures and hands-on implementation.

Developed real-time drone classification model using a custom cascaded deep CNN model with artificial perturbations to simulate real-world variability - Field used successfully.
Developed an LLM-powered chat-bot using LLaMA and TensorRT. Integrated Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) pipeline for real-time access to proprietary documentation.
Developed "Smart Base" surveillance application featuring people detection, aircraft detection, and number identification OCR, utilizing and fine-tuning YOLOv11 and GOTOCR 2.0.

Machine Learning Team Leader - Israeli Air Force (Dec 2021 - Nov 2023)
Co-founded an AI team to develop rapid AI solutions.

Developed flight route optimization model using Reinforcement-Learning DQN model. Improved average route fuel efficiency by 10% and drastically reduced planning time by 2 hours.
Engineered a remote surveillance system for real-time object detection using AI, developed in C++ on the Jetson Nano. Integrated with satellite communication - successfully delivered within a tight 3-month deadline.
Developed an AI storage layout recommendation and management system for Hercules aircraft, by training reinforcement learning DQN model. Managed to reduce mission planning time by over four hours per operation.

System Engineer - Israeli Air Force (Oct 2019 - Dec 2021)

Led a POC project on RADAR synthetic target injection for testing aircraft weapon systems. Worked independently, self-studying U.S. RADAR signal protocol documentation and implementing core logic in VHDL. The POC was approved, funded and produced to delivery.

Tutor (2023 - 2025)

Mentored undergraduate Computer Science and Data Science students in Python, Machine Learning, algorithms, statistics, and math.

Technical Skills

Programming: Python, C++, MATLAB
Frameworks: PyTorch, FastAPI, MLFlow, Scikit-learn, FFmpeg
Tools: Proxmox, Linux, Docker, TensorRT, Git
Languages: Hebrew (Native), English (fluent)

Achievements & Activities

1st Place – AI IDF Challenge Hackathon (2023), best solution for predicting malfunctions in the Iron Dome power generator.
Research Grant Recipient of Ministry of Agriculture's Research Grant (2024) for "Development of an automatic system for characterizing the root system for optimal Irrigation and fertilization"
Completed Deep Learning Specialization (Andrew Ng)

Publications

1) Divya Mishra, Ofek Nourian, Sharon Chemweno, Ofer Hadar, Naftali Lazarovitch, Jhonathan E. Ephrath. "A Novel Approach for Plant Root-Hair Counting and Its Improvement via Image Super-Resolution". Accepted for publication in IEEE Transactions on AgriFood Electronics, 2025.
In this paper I have created a classical pipline for exctracting the root-hair count from root images. in the process i have invented two algorithms, one for extracting the root structure foreground from the background using histogram manipulation, two for extracting the root count from a binary image. this than was used as a metric for testing a novel approach to a super-resolution model.
2) Shubham Agarwa, Ofek Nourian, Michael Sidorov, Ofer Hadar. "Plant root analysis using multi-image super resolution". Expected submission to IEEE Transactions on AgriFood Electronics, 2025. used modified version of the generated real looking dataset for training a novel approach for multi-frame super-resolution model.
3) Ofek Nourian, Ofer Hadar. "Root Hair Segmentation Using synthetically generated dataset". Expected submission to IEEE Transactions on AgriFood Electronics, 2025. synthetically generated real looking fully annotated dataset for training an instance segmentation model.

Other stuff

I have experience in designing 3D models for 3D printing using freeCAD. I have designed electronic boxes for compacting projects.

I have participated in "Perach" program for aiding students in math and computer science

I have a passion for electronics and building projects:
- I have created a table watch for my brother's birth day, which can be connected to with a smartphone via bluetooth and configure it, using the smartphone you can turn the watch into a retro game console and play space invaders and snake with the controller being the smartphone.
- I have created for my sister's birth day a taking plant, that will watch for people walking by and ask them to water it when the plant is dry, it will also make drinking sounds when you water it.
- I have created a desk photo viewer that display info like: time, temperature, quote of the day, and it show photos of my girlfriend. the image dataset is using firebase and is updated in real time automatically whenever I take a 
picture with my girlfriend face in it.

which is also why I know a lot about Arduino, raspberry pi, sensors and hardware.

It is very important for me to keep healthy, I enjoy running, rock climbing and biking. and I try to eat healthy.
my hobbies are : Learning New technologies, running, hiking and seeing Israel and electronics.

I have finished my high-school at Israel, "mekif Tet" where I studied 5 units in math, english, pyhsics and 10 units in computers. with a final grade of 108. I have learned to program HTML, assembly, C#, SQL and android app development.

I have a lot of experience in many topics and am easily qualified for senior position.

I was born at December 1997.

I have made this website and self-hosted it on my Virtual Machine in my Proxmox server. it is run through a docker-compose, it runs a react app with javascript and python API backend.

